---
layout: post
title: "SWEN 261- Intro to Django Routing"
date: 2016-02-10 15:00:00
feature: "261"
featured_image: /images/python-logo.png
---

## Resolving Routes in Django
Learning how routes are resolved in web applications can be tricky. A route can be classified as the path that is followed when a URL is entered into a web browser. In complex web applications, routing can become more complex as well. Dynamic routing as shown in the [Django tutorial] (https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/intro/tutorial01/) can use techniques such as regular expression parsing to display personalized pages to users. A route such as ` r'^(?P<question_id>[0-9]+)/$' ` found in step 3 of the Django tutorial can be used to show an arbitrary number of unique questions to a user. This could be modified to show personalized landing pages, user information, or any other dynamic content in a Django web application. 

## What's a regular expression (RegEx?)

While the statement in the Django tutorial is not exactly a regular expression, it's nice to know how they work at a base level to learn more about the process of routing in Django. A regular expression will use a series of tags such as `[0-9]` denote that a specific type of character should be matchedin a given string. In the case of routing, a regular expression is simply applied against the string that is put into the address bar of a web browser in order to determine what content should be served up. While the examples provided in the tutorial serve up html pages with some dynamic content from a server, all sorts of information can be shown when a regular expression is matched for a given route. These could include static images, media (.pdf, .mp4, etc...) or the JSON response of a webserver. 

As a concrete example, let's evaluate the route string `r'^(?P<question_id>[0-9]+)/$'``'`. The 'r' denotes that the route should be matched via a regular expression. The `?P` string shows that a named pattern should be matched against. In this case, the named pattern is <question_id> followed by `[0-9]`. The numbers in brackets show that a number between zero and nine will match the regular expression parser. The plus after these brackets show that one or more numeric characters must occur in order to cause a match on the RegEx. Putting this all together, the routes `/5/` and `/500/` would match, while `/five-hundered/` would not.

There's a great deal of resources on Regular Expressions all over the internet, and resources that are more specific to Django on the framework's official documentation. Here are a few resources that can hopefully reduce confusion: 

* [Django URL Dispatcher Docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/http/urls/https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/http/urls/)
* [Regular expressions for Django URLs](http://www.webforefront.com/django/regexpdjangourls.html)

Feel free to reach out at `jmp3833@rit.edu` if you would like any additional topics covered. Happy Coding!

